These. Tacos. Are. Life.

They are so life that I used the periods-after-each-word trick right up there to really make you understand. Had to. Desperate times, desperate measures, all that stuff. You HAVE to understand the beauty of this combination:

tender, fall-apart, juicy, flavorful meat (this from a veg-lover, okay? so please just realize that I do not often praise meat like this)
bendy, pillow-soft flour tortillas, because we’re going for a total food truck vibe here
kimchi, which is spicy fermented cabbage that sounds 100% awful but is, in fact, delicious
chopped cilantro
chopped peanuts
spicy mayooooo and don’t even go middle school on me with the “I don’t like mayo” thing. these tacos require mayo.
This beef – this gingery, garlicky, flavor-loaded beef – is kind of a workhorse around here. It has shown up in many of my recipes: Korean BBQ Burrito, Korean BBQ Steak Salad Bowls, Korean BBQ Yum Yum Rice Bowls… and now, look. Here it is again. I kind of  hope it never leaves.

Basically what has happened is me saying “I need to eat that Korean style beef again” + “I have an Instant Pot now” and then *poof*! This recipe.

Guys, I have mixed feelings about the Instant Pot. Mostly because I don’t like telling you that you need to buy something when I think you probably don’t need it. You probably already have a ton of unused appliances in your kitchen and I would be adding to that long list. That stresses me out.

On the other hand, YOU KINDA NEED IT. It can cook your meat in less than an hour. Wait though: it can cook your meat in less than an hour!! You don’t have to plan ahead. Dinners will be rescued, souls will be saved. I dunno, it’s up to you. A slow cooker would work. A pan on the stove would work. Instructions for both are in the recipe.

But still. Think about that hour. You might kinda need it.

HOW TO MAKE OUR KOREAN BEEF TACOS (1 MIN):

Instant Pot Korean Beef Tacos close up.

This is kimchi. Are you guys on that bandwagon? Or are you closing your browser window?

Kimchi in a container.

Annnnd juicy beef. Ready in an hour. Did I say that already?

Instant Pot Korean Beef.

I honestly do not rave about meat recipes. That’s just not my jam.

But this is a meat recipe I am raving about. I adore it. I think you will love it.

Buy some quality meat, legit kimchi, and extra fluffy tortillas. You are about to operate a standard FOOD TRUCK SERVICE out of your house. For yourself. Singularly you. Sweatpants-wearing, top-knot-rocking you.

Tacos are the best. Have fun. XO

Instant Pot Korean Beef Tacos.

PS. I adore this video. It’s where I got the inspiration for this Korean style beef recipe way back when I made it the first time.